source/api-suppressions.rst, before:

.. _api-suppressions:

Suppressions
############

Mailgun keeps three lists of addresses it blocks the delivery to: bounces,
unsubscribes and complaints. These lists are populated automatically as Mailgun
detects undeliverable addresses you try to send to and as recipients unsubscribe
from your mailings or mark your emails as a spam (for ESPs that provide FBL).
You can also add/remove addresses from any of these lists using the API.

.. note:: This is the documentation for the new Suppressions API. The documentation for the previous
          version (/v2) will temporarily be available here: :ref:`bounces <api-bounces-old>`,
          :ref:`unsubscribes <api-unsubscribes-old>`, :ref:`complaints <api-complaints-old>`.

.. _api-bounces:

Bounces
=======

Bounce list stores events of delivery failures due to permanent recipient
mailbox errors such as non-existent mailbox. Soft bounces (for example, mailbox
is full) and other failures (for example, ESP rejects an email because it
thinks it is spam) are not added to the list.

Subsequent delivery attempts to an address found in a bounce list are prevented
to protect your sending reputation.

Mailgun can notify your application every time a message bounces via
a :ref:`bounce webhook <um-tracking-bounces>`.

View all bounces
----------------

.. code-block:: url

      GET /<domain>/bounces

Paginate over a list of bounces for a domain.

.. note:: Via this API method bounces are returned in the alphabetical order. If
          you wish to poll for the recently occurred bounces, please consider
          using the :ref:`Events API <api-events>`.

.. container:: ptable

 ================= ==========================================================
 Parameter         Description
 ================= ==========================================================
 limit             Maximum number of records to return (optional, default: 100,
                   max: 10000)
 ================= ==========================================================

Example:

.. include:: samples/get-bounces.rst

Expected response:

.. code-block:: javascript

      200
      {
        "items":
          [
            {
              "address": "alice@example.com",
              "code": "550",
              "error": "No such mailbox",
              "created_at": "Fri, 21 Oct 2011 11:02:55 GMT"
            },
            ...
          ],
        "paging":
          {
            "first": <first page URL>,
            "next": <next page URL>,
            "previous": <previous page URL>,
            "last": <last page URL>
          }
      }

View a single bounce
--------------------

.. code-block:: url

     GET /<domain>/bounces/<address>

Fetch a single bounce event by a given email address. Useful to check if
a given email address has bounced before.

Example:

.. include:: samples/get-bounce.rst

Expected responses:

.. code-block:: javascript

      200
      {
        "address": "foo@bar.com",
        "code": "550",
        "error": "No such mailbox",
        "created_at": "Fri, 21 Oct 2011 11:02:55 GMT"
      }

.. code-block:: javascript

      404
      {
        "message": "Address not found in bounces table"
      }

Add a single bounce
-------------------

.. code-block:: url

     POST /<domain>/bounces

Add a bounce record to the bounce list. Updates the existing record
if the address is already there.

.. container:: ptable

 ================== =======================================================
 Parameter          Description
 ================== =======================================================
 address            Valid email address
 code               Error code (optional, default: 550)
 error              Error description (optional, default: empty string)
 created_at         Timestamp of a bounce event in :ref:`RFC2822 format
                    <date-format>` (optional, default: current time)
 ================== =======================================================

Example:

.. include:: samples/add-bounce.rst

Expected response:

.. code-block:: javascript

      200
      {
        "message": "Address has been added to the bounces table",
        "address": "bob@example.com"
      }

Add multiple bounces
--------------------

.. code-block:: url

      POST /<domain>/bounces, Content-Type: application/json

Add multiple bounce records to the bounce list in a single API call.

Request body is expected to be a valid JSON encoded string containing up
to 1000 bounce records in the following format.

.. code-block:: javascript

      [
        {
          "address": "alice@example.com",
          "code": "550",
          "error": "Bounced",
          "created_at": "Thu, 13 Oct 2011 18:02:00 UTC"
        },
        {
          "address": "bob@example.com",
          "code": "550",
          "error": "Bounced"
        },
        {
          "address": "carol@example.com",
          "code": "550"
        },
        {
          "address": "dan@example.com"
        }
      ]

Fields within each individual bounce record are the same as for the "add
a single bounce" API method, with the same defaults and optionality rules.

.. note:: The current versions of our language libraries do not support
          adding multiple bounces yet.

Expected response:

.. code-block:: javascript

      200
      {
        "message": "4 addresses have been added to the bounces table"
      }

Delete a single bounce
----------------------

.. code-block:: url

      DELETE /<domain>/bounces/<address>

Clears a given bounce event. The delivery to the deleted email address resumes
until it bounces again.

Expected response:

.. code-block:: javascript

      200
      {
        "message": "Bounced address has been removed"
      }

.. _api-unsubscribes:

Unsubscribes
============

Unsubscribe list stores email addresses of recipients who unsubscribed from
your mailings by clicking a Mailgun generated unsubscribe link.

Mailgun allows you to quickly add "Unsubscribe me" feature to your outgoing
emails without any programming on your end. You can enable this in your
Control Panel under your domain settings.

Mailgun can notify your application every time a user unsubscribes via
an :ref:`unsubscribe webhook <um-tracking-unsubscribes>`.

View all unsubscribes
---------------------

.. code-block:: url

     GET /<domain>/unsubscribes

Paginate over a list of unsubscribes for a domain.

.. note:: Via this API method unsubscribes are returned in the alphabetical
          order. If you wish to poll for the recently occurred unsubscribes,
          please consider using the :ref:`Events API <api-events>`.

.. container:: ptable

 ================= ==========================================================
 Parameter         Description
 ================= ==========================================================
 limit             Number of records to return (optional, default: 100,
                   max: 10000)
 ================= ==========================================================

Example:

.. include:: samples/get-unsubscribes.rst

Expected response:

.. code-block:: javascript

      200
      {
        "items":
          [
            {
              "address": "alice@example.com",
              "tag": "*",
              "created_at": "Fri, 21 Oct 2011 11:02:55 GMT"
            },
            ...
          ],
        "paging":
          {
            "first": <first page URL>,
            "next": <next page URL>,
            "previous": <previous page URL>,
            "last": <last page URL>
          }
      }

View a single unsubscribe
-------------------------

.. code-block:: url

     GET /<domain>/unsubscribes/<address>

Fetch a single unsubscribe record. Can be used to check if a given address
is present in the list of unsubscribed users.

Expected responses:

.. code-block:: javascript

      200
      {
        "address": "alice@example.com",
        "tag": "*",
        "created_at": "Fri, 21 Oct 2011 11:02:55 GMT"
      }

.. code-block:: javascript

      404
      {
        "message": "Address not found in unsubscribers table"
      }

Add a single unsubscribe
------------------------

.. code-block:: url

     POST /<domain>/unsubscribes

Add an address to the unsubscribe table.

.. container:: ptable

 ================== =======================================================
 Parameter          Description
 ================== =======================================================
 address            Valid email address
 tag                Tag to unsubscribe from, use ``*`` to unsubscribe
                    an address from all domain's correspondence (optional,
                    default: ``*``)
 created_at         Timestamp of an unsubscribe event in :ref:`RFC2822 format
                    <date-format>` (optional, default: current time)
 ================== =======================================================

Example:

.. include:: samples/add-unsubscribe-all.rst

Expected response:

.. code-block:: javascript

      200
      {
        "message": "Address has been added to the unsubscribes table",
        "address": "bob@example.com"
      }

Add multiple unsubscribes
-------------------------

.. code-block:: url

      POST /<domain>/unsubscribes, Content-Type: application/json

Add multiple unsubscribe records to the unsubscribe list in a single API call.

Request body is expected to be a valid JSON encoded string containing up
to 1000 unsubscribe records in the following format.

.. code-block:: javascript

      [
        {
          "address": "alice@example.com",
          "tag": "Some tag",
          "created_at": "Thu, 13 Oct 2011 18:02:00 UTC"
        },
        {
          "address": "bob@example.com",
          "tag": "*",
        },
        {
          "address": "carol@example.com"
        }
      ]

Fields within each individual unsubscribe record are the same as for the "add
a single unsubscribe" API method, with the same defaults and optionality rules.

.. note:: The current versions of our language libraries do not support
          adding multiple unsubscribes yet.

Expected response:

.. code-block:: javascript

      200
      {
        "message": "3 addresses have been added to the unsubscribes table"
      }

Delete a single unsubscribe
---------------------------

.. code-block:: url

     DELETE /<domain>/unsubscribes/<address>

Remove an address from the unsubscribes list. If ``tag`` parameter is not provided,
completely removes an address from the list.

.. container:: ptable

 ================== =======================================================
 Parameter          Description
 ================== =======================================================
 tag                Specific tag to remove (optional)
 ================== =======================================================

Expected response:

.. code-block:: javascript

      200
      {
        "message": "Unsubscribe event has been removed"
      }

.. _api-complaints:

Complaints
==========

Complaint list stores email addresses of recipients who marked your messages
as a spam (for ESPs that support FBL).

Mailgun can notify your application every time a recipient flags your message
as spam via a :ref:`complaint webhook <um-tracking-spam-complaints>`.

View all complaints
-------------------

.. code-block:: url

     GET /<domain>/complaints

Paginate over a list of complaints for a domain.

.. note:: Via this API method complaints are returned in the alphabetical
          order. If you wish to poll for the recently occurred complaints,
          please consider using the :ref:`Events API <api-events>`.

.. container:: ptable

 ================= ==========================================================
 Parameter         Description
 ================= ==========================================================
 limit             Maximum number of records to return (optional, default: 100)
 ================= ==========================================================

Example:

.. include:: samples/get-complaints.rst

Expected response:

.. code-block:: javascript

      200
      {
        "items":
          [
            {
              "address": "alice@example.com",
              "created_at": "Fri, 21 Oct 2011 11:02:55 GMT"
            },
            ...
          ],
        "paging":
          {
            "first": <first page URL>,
            "next": <next page URL>,
            "previous": <previous page URL>,
            "last": <last page URL>
          }
      }

View a single complaint
-----------------------

.. code-block:: url

     GET /<domain>/complaints/<address>

Fetch a single spam complaint by a given email address. This is useful to check
if a particular user has complained.

Example:

.. include:: samples/get-complaint.rst

Expected response:

.. code-block:: javascript

      200
      {
        "address": "baz@example.com",
        "created_at": "Fri, 21 Oct 2011 11:02:55 GMT"
      }

.. code-block:: javascript

      404
      {
        "message": "No spam complaints found for this address"
      }

Add a single complaint
----------------------

.. code-block:: url

     POST /<domain>/complaints

Add an address to the complaints list.

.. container:: ptable

 ================== =======================================================
 Parameter          Description
 ================== =======================================================
 address            Valid email address
 created_at         Timestamp of a complaint event in :ref:`RFC2822 format
                    <date-format>` (optional, default: current time)
 ================== =======================================================

Example:

.. include:: samples/add-complaint.rst

Expected response:

.. code-block:: javascript

      200
      {
        "message": "Address has been addded to the complaints table",
        "address": "bob@example.com"
      }

Add multiple complaints
-----------------------

.. code-block:: url

      POST /<domain>/complaints, Content-Type: application/json

Add multiple complaint records to the complaint list in a single API call.

Request body is expected to be a valid JSON encoded string containing up
to 1000 complaint records in the following format.

.. code-block:: javascript

      [
        {
          "address": "alice@example.com",
          "created_at": "Thu, 13 Oct 2011 18:02:00 UTC"
        },
        {
          "address": "bob@example.com",
        }
      ]

Fields within each individual complaint record are the same as for the "add
a single unsubscribe" API method, with the same defaults and optionality rules.

.. note:: The current versions of our language libraries do not support
          adding multiple complaints yet.

Expected response:

.. code-block:: url

      200
      {
        "message": "2 complaint addresses have been added to the complaints table"
      }

Delete a single complaint
-------------------------

.. code-block:: url

     DELETE /<domain>/complaints/<address>

Remove a given spam complaint.

Expected response:

.. code-block:: url

      200
      {
        "message": "Spam complaint has been removed"
      }

Commit message:

Add entire bounce list delete to docs

source/api-suppressions.rst, after:

.. _api-suppressions:

Suppressions
############

Mailgun keeps three lists of addresses it blocks the delivery to: bounces,
unsubscribes and complaints. These lists are populated automatically as Mailgun
detects undeliverable addresses you try to send to and as recipients unsubscribe
from your mailings or mark your emails as a spam (for ESPs that provide FBL).
You can also add/remove addresses from any of these lists using the API.

.. note:: This is the documentation for the new Suppressions API. The documentation for the previous
          version (/v2) will temporarily be available here: :ref:`bounces <api-bounces-old>`,
          :ref:`unsubscribes <api-unsubscribes-old>`, :ref:`complaints <api-complaints-old>`.

.. _api-bounces:

Bounces
=======

Bounce list stores events of delivery failures due to permanent recipient
mailbox errors such as non-existent mailbox. Soft bounces (for example, mailbox
is full) and other failures (for example, ESP rejects an email because it
thinks it is spam) are not added to the list.

Subsequent delivery attempts to an address found in a bounce list are prevented
to protect your sending reputation.

Mailgun can notify your application every time a message bounces via
a :ref:`bounce webhook <um-tracking-bounces>`.

View all bounces
----------------

.. code-block:: url

      GET /<domain>/bounces

Paginate over a list of bounces for a domain.

.. note:: Via this API method bounces are returned in the alphabetical order. If
          you wish to poll for the recently occurred bounces, please consider
          using the :ref:`Events API <api-events>`.

.. container:: ptable

 ================= ==========================================================
 Parameter         Description
 ================= ==========================================================
 limit             Maximum number of records to return (optional, default: 100,
                   max: 10000)
 ================= ==========================================================

Example:

.. include:: samples/get-bounces.rst

Expected response:

.. code-block:: javascript

      200
      {
        "items":
          [
            {
              "address": "alice@example.com",
              "code": "550",
              "error": "No such mailbox",
              "created_at": "Fri, 21 Oct 2011 11:02:55 GMT"
            },
            ...
          ],
        "paging":
          {
            "first": <first page URL>,
            "next": <next page URL>,
            "previous": <previous page URL>,
            "last": <last page URL>
          }
      }

View a single bounce
--------------------

.. code-block:: url

     GET /<domain>/bounces/<address>

Fetch a single bounce event by a given email address. Useful to check if
a given email address has bounced before.

Example:

.. include:: samples/get-bounce.rst

Expected responses:

.. code-block:: javascript

      200
      {
        "address": "foo@bar.com",
        "code": "550",
        "error": "No such mailbox",
        "created_at": "Fri, 21 Oct 2011 11:02:55 GMT"
      }

.. code-block:: javascript

      404
      {
        "message": "Address not found in bounces table"
      }

Add a single bounce
-------------------

.. code-block:: url

     POST /<domain>/bounces

Add a bounce record to the bounce list. Updates the existing record
if the address is already there.

.. container:: ptable

 ================== =======================================================
 Parameter          Description
 ================== =======================================================
 address            Valid email address
 code               Error code (optional, default: 550)
 error              Error description (optional, default: empty string)
 created_at         Timestamp of a bounce event in :ref:`RFC2822 format
                    <date-format>` (optional, default: current time)
 ================== =======================================================

Example:

.. include:: samples/add-bounce.rst

Expected response:

.. code-block:: javascript

      200
      {
        "message": "Address has been added to the bounces table",
        "address": "bob@example.com"
      }

Add multiple bounces
--------------------

.. code-block:: url

      POST /<domain>/bounces, Content-Type: application/json

Add multiple bounce records to the bounce list in a single API call.

Request body is expected to be a valid JSON encoded string containing up
to 1000 bounce records in the following format.

.. code-block:: javascript

      [
        {
          "address": "alice@example.com",
          "code": "550",
          "error": "Bounced",
          "created_at": "Thu, 13 Oct 2011 18:02:00 UTC"
        },
        {
          "address": "bob@example.com",
          "code": "550",
          "error": "Bounced"
        },
        {
          "address": "carol@example.com",
          "code": "550"
        },
        {
          "address": "dan@example.com"
        }
      ]

Fields within each individual bounce record are the same as for the "add
a single bounce" API method, with the same defaults and optionality rules.

.. note:: The current versions of our language libraries do not support
          adding multiple bounces yet.

Expected response:

.. code-block:: javascript

      200
      {
        "message": "4 addresses have been added to the bounces table"
      }

Delete a single bounce
----------------------

.. code-block:: url

      DELETE /<domain>/bounces/<address>

Clears a given bounce event. The delivery to the deleted email address resumes
until it bounces again.

Expected response:

.. code-block:: javascript

      200
      {
        "message": "Bounced address has been removed"
      }

Delete an entire bounce list
----------------------

.. code-block:: url

      DELETE /<domain>/bounces

Clears all bounced email addresses for a domain. Delivery to the deleted email addresses will no
longer be suppressed.

Expected response:

.. code-block:: javascript

      200
      {
        "message": "Bounced addresses for this domain have been removed"
      }


.. _api-unsubscribes:



Unsubscribes
============

Unsubscribe list stores email addresses of recipients who unsubscribed from
your mailings by clicking a Mailgun generated unsubscribe link.

Mailgun allows you to quickly add "Unsubscribe me" feature to your outgoing
emails without any programming on your end. You can enable this in your
Control Panel under your domain settings.

Mailgun can notify your application every time a user unsubscribes via
an :ref:`unsubscribe webhook <um-tracking-unsubscribes>`.

View all unsubscribes
---------------------

.. code-block:: url

     GET /<domain>/unsubscribes

Paginate over a list of unsubscribes for a domain.

.. note:: Via this API method unsubscribes are returned in the alphabetical
          order. If you wish to poll for the recently occurred unsubscribes,
          please consider using the :ref:`Events API <api-events>`.

.. container:: ptable

 ================= ==========================================================
 Parameter         Description
 ================= ==========================================================
 limit             Number of records to return (optional, default: 100,
                   max: 10000)
 ================= ==========================================================

Example:

.. include:: samples/get-unsubscribes.rst

Expected response:

.. code-block:: javascript

      200
      {
        "items":
          [
            {
              "address": "alice@example.com",
              "tag": "*",
              "created_at": "Fri, 21 Oct 2011 11:02:55 GMT"
            },
            ...
          ],
        "paging":
          {
            "first": <first page URL>,
            "next": <next page URL>,
            "previous": <previous page URL>,
            "last": <last page URL>
          }
      }

View a single unsubscribe
-------------------------

.. code-block:: url

     GET /<domain>/unsubscribes/<address>

Fetch a single unsubscribe record. Can be used to check if a given address
is present in the list of unsubscribed users.

Expected responses:

.. code-block:: javascript

      200
      {
        "address": "alice@example.com",
        "tag": "*",
        "created_at": "Fri, 21 Oct 2011 11:02:55 GMT"
      }

.. code-block:: javascript

      404
      {
        "message": "Address not found in unsubscribers table"
      }

Add a single unsubscribe
------------------------

.. code-block:: url

     POST /<domain>/unsubscribes

Add an address to the unsubscribe table.

.. container:: ptable

 ================== =======================================================
 Parameter          Description
 ================== =======================================================
 address            Valid email address
 tag                Tag to unsubscribe from, use ``*`` to unsubscribe
                    an address from all domain's correspondence (optional,
                    default: ``*``)
 created_at         Timestamp of an unsubscribe event in :ref:`RFC2822 format
                    <date-format>` (optional, default: current time)
 ================== =======================================================

Example:

.. include:: samples/add-unsubscribe-all.rst

Expected response:

.. code-block:: javascript

      200
      {
        "message": "Address has been added to the unsubscribes table",
        "address": "bob@example.com"
      }

Add multiple unsubscribes
-------------------------

.. code-block:: url

      POST /<domain>/unsubscribes, Content-Type: application/json

Add multiple unsubscribe records to the unsubscribe list in a single API call.

Request body is expected to be a valid JSON encoded string containing up
to 1000 unsubscribe records in the following format.

.. code-block:: javascript

      [
        {
          "address": "alice@example.com",
          "tag": "Some tag",
          "created_at": "Thu, 13 Oct 2011 18:02:00 UTC"
        },
        {
          "address": "bob@example.com",
          "tag": "*",
        },
        {
          "address": "carol@example.com"
        }
      ]

Fields within each individual unsubscribe record are the same as for the "add
a single unsubscribe" API method, with the same defaults and optionality rules.

.. note:: The current versions of our language libraries do not support
          adding multiple unsubscribes yet.

Expected response:

.. code-block:: javascript

      200
      {
        "message": "3 addresses have been added to the unsubscribes table"
      }

Delete a single unsubscribe
---------------------------

.. code-block:: url

     DELETE /<domain>/unsubscribes/<address>

Remove an address from the unsubscribes list. If ``tag`` parameter is not provided,
completely removes an address from the list.

.. container:: ptable

 ================== =======================================================
 Parameter          Description
 ================== =======================================================
 tag                Specific tag to remove (optional)
 ================== =======================================================

Expected response:

.. code-block:: javascript

      200
      {
        "message": "Unsubscribe event has been removed"
      }

.. _api-complaints:

Complaints
==========

Complaint list stores email addresses of recipients who marked your messages
as a spam (for ESPs that support FBL).

Mailgun can notify your application every time a recipient flags your message
as spam via a :ref:`complaint webhook <um-tracking-spam-complaints>`.

View all complaints
-------------------

.. code-block:: url

     GET /<domain>/complaints

Paginate over a list of complaints for a domain.

.. note:: Via this API method complaints are returned in the alphabetical
          order. If you wish to poll for the recently occurred complaints,
          please consider using the :ref:`Events API <api-events>`.

.. container:: ptable

 ================= ==========================================================
 Parameter         Description
 ================= ==========================================================
 limit             Maximum number of records to return (optional, default: 100)
 ================= ==========================================================

Example:

.. include:: samples/get-complaints.rst

Expected response:

.. code-block:: javascript

      200
      {
        "items":
          [
            {
              "address": "alice@example.com",
              "created_at": "Fri, 21 Oct 2011 11:02:55 GMT"
            },
            ...
          ],
        "paging":
          {
            "first": <first page URL>,
            "next": <next page URL>,
            "previous": <previous page URL>,
            "last": <last page URL>
          }
      }

View a single complaint
-----------------------

.. code-block:: url

     GET /<domain>/complaints/<address>

Fetch a single spam complaint by a given email address. This is useful to check
if a particular user has complained.

Example:

.. include:: samples/get-complaint.rst

Expected response:

.. code-block:: javascript

      200
      {
        "address": "baz@example.com",
        "created_at": "Fri, 21 Oct 2011 11:02:55 GMT"
      }

.. code-block:: javascript

      404
      {
        "message": "No spam complaints found for this address"
      }

Add a single complaint
----------------------

.. code-block:: url

     POST /<domain>/complaints

Add an address to the complaints list.

.. container:: ptable

 ================== =======================================================
 Parameter          Description
 ================== =======================================================
 address            Valid email address
 created_at         Timestamp of a complaint event in :ref:`RFC2822 format
                    <date-format>` (optional, default: current time)
 ================== =======================================================

Example:

.. include:: samples/add-complaint.rst

Expected response:

.. code-block:: javascript

      200
      {
        "message": "Address has been addded to the complaints table",
        "address": "bob@example.com"
      }

Add multiple complaints
-----------------------

.. code-block:: url

      POST /<domain>/complaints, Content-Type: application/json

Add multiple complaint records to the complaint list in a single API call.

Request body is expected to be a valid JSON encoded string containing up
to 1000 complaint records in the following format.

.. code-block:: javascript

      [
        {
          "address": "alice@example.com",
          "created_at": "Thu, 13 Oct 2011 18:02:00 UTC"
        },
        {
          "address": "bob@example.com",
        }
      ]

Fields within each individual complaint record are the same as for the "add
a single unsubscribe" API method, with the same defaults and optionality rules.

.. note:: The current versions of our language libraries do not support
          adding multiple complaints yet.

Expected response:

.. code-block:: url

      200
      {
        "message": "2 complaint addresses have been added to the complaints table"
      }

Delete a single complaint
-------------------------

.. code-block:: url

     DELETE /<domain>/complaints/<address>

Remove a given spam complaint.

Expected response:

.. code-block:: url

      200
      {
        "message": "Spam complaint has been removed"
      }
