source/api-email-validation.rst, before:

.. _api-email-validation:

Email Validation
================

This API endpoint is an email address validation service. We will validate the given address based on:

- Mailbox detection

- Syntax checks (RFC defined grammar)

- DNS validation

- Spell checks

- Email Service Provider (ESP) specific local-part grammar (if available).

Pricing details for Mailgun's email validation service can be found on our `pricing page`_.

Mailgun's email validation service is intended to validate email addresses submitted through forms like newsletters, online registrations and shopping carts.  Refer to our `Acceptable Use Policy (AUP)`_ for more information about how to use the service appropriately.

.. _pricing page: https://www.mailgun.com/pricing
.. _Acceptable Use Policy (AUP): http://mailgun.com/aup


Different email validation rates are given based on the API endpoint. Both the public and private
API endpoints are limited to a burst per minute rate. The public endpoints have a default
limit of calls per month, which can be changed, to prevent abuse of the public API key.
The use of private API endpoints for email validation is encouraged and there is no limit past the initial
burst per minute rate. It is highly suggested that the private key is used whenever possible.

.. warning:: Do not use your Mailgun private API key on publicly accessible code. Instead, use your Mailgun public key, available in the "Security" tab under the **Account** section of the Control Panel.

.. note::  A previous version of the API is described here :ref:`api-email-validation`

.. code-block:: url

     GET /v4/address/validate

Given an arbitrary address, validates address based off defined checks.

.. container:: ptable

 ====================== ========================================================
 Parameter         	Description
 ====================== ========================================================
 address           	An email address to validate. (Maximum: 512 characters)
 ====================== ========================================================


Example
~~~~~~~

Validate a single email address.

.. include:: samples/get-validate.rst

Example of a failed mailbox verification result.

.. code-block:: javascript

    {
        "address": "nonexistentemail@realdomain.com",
        "is_disposable_address": false,
        "is_role_address": false,
        "reason": [mailbox_does_not_exist],
        "result": "undeliverable",
        "risk": "high"
    }


Example of successful mailbox verification result.

.. code-block:: javascript

    {
        "address": "existingemail@realdomain.com",
        "is_disposable_address": false,
        "is_role_address": false,
        "reason": [],
        "result": "deliverable",
        "risk": "low"
    }

Field Explanation:

=====================    =========    ============================================================================================================
Parameter                Type         Description
=====================    =========    ============================================================================================================
address                  string       Email address being validated
did_you_mean             string       (Optional) Null if nothing, however if a potential typo is made, the closest suggestion is provided
is_disposable_address    boolean      If the domain is in a list of disposable email addresses, this will be appropriately categorized
is_role_address          boolean      Checks the mailbox portion of the email if it matches a specific role type ('admin', 'sales', 'webmaster')
reason                   array        List of potential reasons why a specific validation may be unsuccessful.
result                   string       Either ``deliverable``, ``undeliverable`` or ``unknown`` status given the evaluation.
risk                     string       ``high``, ``medium``, ``low`` or ``null`` Depending on the evaluation of all aspects of the given email.
=====================    =========    ============================================================================================================


Bulk Validation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. note::
    Bulk Validation allows for the validation of a list of email addresses. Given a list name and an uploaded file of email addresses,
    a backend processing job will be run to validate the list. Once the validations have all been completed, the
    results will be provided with download links.


.. note::
    Its important to upload as `multi-part/form-data` where the file is defined by `file`.

    Currently only raw `csv` and `gzip` are supported.

    The column header for emails needs to be either `email` or `email_address`

.. warning::
    Lists must comply to either UTF-8 or ASCII encoding and not have a '@' in the name.

.. code-block:: url

    GET /v4/address/validate/bulk

Get list of all bulk validation jobs for an account.

.. code-block:: url

    POST /v4/address/validate/bulk/<list_id>

Create a bulk validation job.

.. code-block:: url

    GET /v4/address/validate/bulk/<list_id>

Check the current status of a bulk validation job.

.. code-block:: url

    DELETE /v4/address/validate/bulk/<list_id>

Cancel current running bulk validation job.


Bulk Validation Examples
------------------------

Get the status of a bulk validation job:

.. include:: samples/get-bulk-validation.rst

Sample Response:

.. code-block:: javascript

    {
      "created_at": "Tue, 26 Feb 2019 21:30:03 GMT",
      "download_url": {
        "csv": "<download_link>",
        "json": "<download_link>"
      },
      "id": "bulk_validations_sandbox_mailgun_org",
      "quantity": 207665,
      "records_processed": 207665,
      "status": "uploaded",
      "summary": {
        "result": {
          "deliverable": 184199,
          "do_not_send": 5647,
          "undeliverable": 12116,
          "unknown": 5613
        },
        "risk": {
          "high": 17763,
          "low": 142547,
          "medium": 41652,
          "unknown": 5613
        }
      }
    }

Field Explanation:

=====================    ===========    ============================================================================================================
Parameter                Type           Description
=====================    ===========    ============================================================================================================
created_at               string         Date/Time that the request was initiated
download_url             array          `csv` and `json` representation of the download link for the results of the bulk validations
id                       string         list_id name given when the list was initially created
quantity                 integer        number of total items in the list to be validated
records_processed        integer        de-duplicated total of validated email addresses
status                   string         current state of the list validation request. (``created``, ``processing``, ``completed``, ``uploading``, ``uploaded``, and ``failed``)
summary                  collection     summary of the validations in the list provided
result                   array          nested results count. (``deliverable``, ``do_not_send``, ``undeliverable``, and `unknown`)
risk                     array          nested risk assessment count (``high``, ``low``, ``medium`` or ``unknown``)
=====================    ===========    ============================================================================================================



Get the status of all bulk validation jobs:

.. include:: samples/get-bulk-validations.rst

Sample Response:

.. code-block:: javascript

    [
        {
            "created_at": "Tue, 26 Feb 2019 21:30:03 GMT",
            "download_url": {
                "csv": "<download_link>",
                "json": "<download_link>"
            }
            "id": "bulk_validations_sandbox2_mailgun_org",
            "quantity": 207665,
            "records_processed": 207665,
            "status": "uploaded",
            "summary": {
                "result": {
                    "deliverable": 184199,
                    "do_not_send": 5647,
                    "undeliverable": 12116,
                    "unknown": 5613},
                "risk": {
                    "high": 17763,
                    "low": 142547,
                    "medium": 41652,
                    "unknown": 5613}
            }
        },
        {
            "created_at": "Tue, 23 Feb 2019 21:30:03 GMT",
            "download_url": {
                "csv": "<download_link>",
                "json": "<download_link>"
            }
            "id": "bulk_validations_sandbox_mailgun_org",
            "quantity": 207,
            "records_processed": 207,
            "status": "uploaded",
            "summary": {
                "result": {
                    "deliverable": 184199,
                    "do_not_send": 5647,
                    "undeliverable": 12116,
                    "unknown": 5613},
                "risk": {
                    "high": 17763,
                    "low": 142547,
                    "medium": 41652,
                    "unknown": 5613}
            }
        }
    ]

Create a bulk validation job:

.. include:: samples/create-bulk-validation.rst

Sample Response:

.. code-block:: javascript

    {
     "id":"myemails"
     "message": "The validation job was submitted."
    }


Cancel a bulk validation job:

.. include:: samples/delete-bulk-validation.rst

Sample Response:

.. code-block:: javascript

    {
     "message": "Validation job canceled."
    }

Commit message:

add reasons table to email_validations api documentation

source/api-email-validation.rst, after:

.. _api-email-validation:

Email Validation
================

This API endpoint is an email address validation service. We will validate the given address based on:

- Mailbox detection

- Syntax checks (RFC defined grammar)

- DNS validation

- Spell checks

- Email Service Provider (ESP) specific local-part grammar (if available).

Pricing details for Mailgun's email validation service can be found on our `pricing page`_.

Mailgun's email validation service is intended to validate email addresses submitted through forms like newsletters, online registrations and shopping carts.  Refer to our `Acceptable Use Policy (AUP)`_ for more information about how to use the service appropriately.

.. _pricing page: https://www.mailgun.com/pricing
.. _Acceptable Use Policy (AUP): http://mailgun.com/aup


Different email validation rates are given based on the API endpoint. Both the public and private
API endpoints are limited to a burst per minute rate. The public endpoints have a default
limit of calls per month, which can be changed, to prevent abuse of the public API key.
The use of private API endpoints for email validation is encouraged and there is no limit past the initial
burst per minute rate. It is highly suggested that the private key is used whenever possible.

.. warning:: Do not use your Mailgun private API key on publicly accessible code. Instead, use your Mailgun public key, available in the "Security" tab under the **Account** section of the Control Panel.

.. note::  A previous version of the API is described here :ref:`api-email-validation`

.. code-block:: url

     GET /v4/address/validate

Given an arbitrary address, validates address based off defined checks.

.. container:: ptable

 ====================== ========================================================
 Parameter         	Description
 ====================== ========================================================
 address           	An email address to validate. (Maximum: 512 characters)
 ====================== ========================================================


Example
~~~~~~~

Validate a single email address.

.. include:: samples/get-validate.rst

Example of a failed mailbox verification result.

.. code-block:: javascript

    {
        "address": "nonexistentemail@realdomain.com",
        "is_disposable_address": false,
        "is_role_address": false,
        "reason": [mailbox_does_not_exist],
        "result": "undeliverable",
        "risk": "high"
    }


Example of successful mailbox verification result.

.. code-block:: javascript

    {
        "address": "existingemail@realdomain.com",
        "is_disposable_address": false,
        "is_role_address": false,
        "reason": [],
        "result": "deliverable",
        "risk": "low"
    }

Field Explanation:

=====================    =========    ============================================================================================================
Parameter                Type         Description
=====================    =========    ============================================================================================================
address                  string       Email address being validated
did_you_mean             string       (Optional) Null if nothing, however if a potential typo is made, the closest suggestion is provided
is_disposable_address    boolean      If the domain is in a list of disposable email addresses, this will be appropriately categorized
is_role_address          boolean      Checks the mailbox portion of the email if it matches a specific role type ('admin', 'sales', 'webmaster')
reason                   array        List of potential reasons why a specific validation may be unsuccessful.
result                   string       Either ``deliverable``, ``undeliverable`` or ``unknown`` status given the evaluation.
risk                     string       ``high``, ``medium``, ``low`` or ``null`` Depending on the evaluation of all aspects of the given email.
=====================    =========    ============================================================================================================

Reason Explanation:

=============================    ==========================================================================================================================================================================================
Reason                           Description
=============================    ==========================================================================================================================================================================================
unknown_provider                 The MX provider is a high risk unknown provider.
no_mx / No MX host found         The recipient domain does not have a valid MX host (Note this reason will be consolidated to only "no_mx" in the future)
high_risk_domain                 Information obtained about the domain indicates it is high risk to send email to.
subdomain_mailer                 The recipient domain is identified to be a subdomain and is not on our exception list. Subdomains are considered to be high risk as many spammers and malicious actors utilize them.
immature_domain                  The domain is newly created based on the WHOIS information.
tld_risk                         The domain has a top-level-domain (TLD) that has been identified as high risk.
mailbox_does_not_exist           The mailbox is undeliverable or does not exist.
mailbox_is_disposable_address    The mailbox has been identified to be a disposable address. Disposable address are temporary, generally one time use, addresses.
mailbox_is_role_address          The mailbox is a role based address (ex. support@..., marketing@...).
=============================    ==========================================================================================================================================================================================

Bulk Validation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. note::
    Bulk Validation allows for the validation of a list of email addresses. Given a list name and an uploaded file of email addresses,
    a backend processing job will be run to validate the list. Once the validations have all been completed, the
    results will be provided with download links.


.. note::
    Its important to upload as `multi-part/form-data` where the file is defined by `file`.

    Currently only raw `csv` and `gzip` are supported.

    The column header for emails needs to be either `email` or `email_address`

.. warning::
    Lists must comply to either UTF-8 or ASCII encoding and not have a '@' in the name.

.. code-block:: url

    GET /v4/address/validate/bulk

Get list of all bulk validation jobs for an account.

.. code-block:: url

    POST /v4/address/validate/bulk/<list_id>

Create a bulk validation job.

.. code-block:: url

    GET /v4/address/validate/bulk/<list_id>

Check the current status of a bulk validation job.

.. code-block:: url

    DELETE /v4/address/validate/bulk/<list_id>

Cancel current running bulk validation job.


Bulk Validation Examples
------------------------

Get the status of a bulk validation job:

.. include:: samples/get-bulk-validation.rst

Sample Response:

.. code-block:: javascript

    {
      "created_at": "Tue, 26 Feb 2019 21:30:03 GMT",
      "download_url": {
        "csv": "<download_link>",
        "json": "<download_link>"
      },
      "id": "bulk_validations_sandbox_mailgun_org",
      "quantity": 207665,
      "records_processed": 207665,
      "status": "uploaded",
      "summary": {
        "result": {
          "deliverable": 184199,
          "do_not_send": 5647,
          "undeliverable": 12116,
          "unknown": 5613
        },
        "risk": {
          "high": 17763,
          "low": 142547,
          "medium": 41652,
          "unknown": 5613
        }
      }
    }

Field Explanation:

=====================    ===========    ============================================================================================================
Parameter                Type           Description
=====================    ===========    ============================================================================================================
created_at               string         Date/Time that the request was initiated
download_url             array          `csv` and `json` representation of the download link for the results of the bulk validations
id                       string         list_id name given when the list was initially created
quantity                 integer        number of total items in the list to be validated
records_processed        integer        de-duplicated total of validated email addresses
status                   string         current state of the list validation request. (``created``, ``processing``, ``completed``, ``uploading``, ``uploaded``, and ``failed``)
summary                  collection     summary of the validations in the list provided
result                   array          nested results count. (``deliverable``, ``do_not_send``, ``undeliverable``, and `unknown`)
risk                     array          nested risk assessment count (``high``, ``low``, ``medium`` or ``unknown``)
=====================    ===========    ============================================================================================================



Get the status of all bulk validation jobs:

.. include:: samples/get-bulk-validations.rst

Sample Response:

.. code-block:: javascript

    [
        {
            "created_at": "Tue, 26 Feb 2019 21:30:03 GMT",
            "download_url": {
                "csv": "<download_link>",
                "json": "<download_link>"
            }
            "id": "bulk_validations_sandbox2_mailgun_org",
            "quantity": 207665,
            "records_processed": 207665,
            "status": "uploaded",
            "summary": {
                "result": {
                    "deliverable": 184199,
                    "do_not_send": 5647,
                    "undeliverable": 12116,
                    "unknown": 5613},
                "risk": {
                    "high": 17763,
                    "low": 142547,
                    "medium": 41652,
                    "unknown": 5613}
            }
        },
        {
            "created_at": "Tue, 23 Feb 2019 21:30:03 GMT",
            "download_url": {
                "csv": "<download_link>",
                "json": "<download_link>"
            }
            "id": "bulk_validations_sandbox_mailgun_org",
            "quantity": 207,
            "records_processed": 207,
            "status": "uploaded",
            "summary": {
                "result": {
                    "deliverable": 184199,
                    "do_not_send": 5647,
                    "undeliverable": 12116,
                    "unknown": 5613},
                "risk": {
                    "high": 17763,
                    "low": 142547,
                    "medium": 41652,
                    "unknown": 5613}
            }
        }
    ]

Create a bulk validation job:

.. include:: samples/create-bulk-validation.rst

Sample Response:

.. code-block:: javascript

    {
     "id":"myemails"
     "message": "The validation job was submitted."
    }


Cancel a bulk validation job:

.. include:: samples/delete-bulk-validation.rst

Sample Response:

.. code-block:: javascript

    {
     "message": "Validation job canceled."
    }
