source/api-templates.rst, before:

.. _api-templates:

Templates
=========

This API allows you to store predefined templates and use them to send messages using the :ref:`Sending API <api-sending-messages>`.

The Templates API endpoint is available at:

.. code-block:: url

      v3/<domain>/templates

The API has the following limitations:

* 100 templates per domain
* 10 versions per template
* 100Kb max template size


Templates API
------------

Store new template
++++++++++++++++++

.. code-block:: url

    POST /<domain>/templates

This API stores a new template, including its name, description and (optionally) the template content.
If the template content is provided, a new version is automatically created and becomes the active version.

.. container:: ptable

 =============== ==================================================================
 Parameter             Description
 =============== ==================================================================
 name            Name of the template being stored. The name can contain alpha characters, digits and next symbols: .-_~
 description     Description of the template being stored
 template        (Optional) Content of the template
 tag             (Optional) Initial tag of the created version. If the `template` parameter is provided and the `tag` is missing, the default value `initial` is used. The tag can contain alpha-numeric characters and next symbols, such as .-_~
 engine          (Optional) The template engine used to render the template. This is valid only if the `template` parameter is provided. Currently, the Templates API supports only the **handlebars** engine.
 comment         (Optional) Version comment. This is valid only if a new version is being created. (`template` parameter is provided.)
 headers         (Optional) Key Value json dictionary of headers to be stored with the template. The headers currently supported are `From`, `Subject`, and `Reply-To`.
 =============== ==================================================================

Example of storing only the template metadata:

.. include:: samples/templates/template-create.rst

Sample response:

.. code-block:: javascript

  {
    "template": {
        "createdAt": "Wed, 29 Aug 2018 23:31:13 UTC",
        "description": "template description",
        "name": "template.name",
    },
    "message": "template has been stored"
  }

Example of storing a template with a version:

.. include:: samples/templates/template-create-version.rst

Sample response:

.. code-block:: javascript

  {
    "template": {
        "createdAt": "Wed, 29 Aug 2018 23:31:13 UTC",
        "description": "template description",
        "name": "template.name",
        "version": {
            "createdAt": "Wed, 29 Aug 2018 23:31:14 UTC",
            "engine": "handlebars",
            "tag": "initial",
            "comment": "version comment",
            "headers": {
                "From": "{{from}}",
                "Reply-To": "{{reply_to}}",
                "subject": "{{subject}}"
            }
        }
    },
    "message": "template has been stored"
  }


Get template 
+++++++++++++

.. code-block:: url

    GET /<domain>/templates/<name>

Returns metadata information about the stored template specified in the url. If the `active` flag is provided, the content of the active version of the template is returned. 

.. container:: ptable

 =============== ===================================================================
 Parameter       Description
 =============== ===================================================================
 active          (Optional) If this flag is set to **yes** the active version of the template is included in the response. 
 =============== ===================================================================

Example:

.. include:: samples/templates/template-get.rst

Sample response:

.. code-block:: javascript

  {
    "template": {
        "createdAt": "Wed, 29 Aug 2018 23:31:13 UTC",
        "description": "template description",
        "name": "template.name"
    }
  }

Example of retrieving the active version of a template:

.. include:: samples/templates/template-get-active.rst

Sample response:

.. code-block:: javascript

  {
    "template": {
        "createdAt": "Wed, 29 Aug 2018 23:31:13 UTC",
        "description": "template description",
        "name": "template.name",
        "version": {
            "createdAt": "Wed, 29 Aug 2018 23:31:15 UTC",
            "engine": "handlebars",
            "tag": "v0",
            "template": "{{fname}} {{lname}}",
            "comment": "version comment"
        }
    }
  }

Update template
+++++++++++++++

.. code-block:: url

    PUT /<domain>/templates/<name>

Update the metadata information of the template specified in url.

.. container:: ptable

 =============== ==============================
 Parameter       Description
 =============== ==============================
 description     Updated description of the template
 =============== ==============================

Example:

.. include:: samples/templates/template-update.rst

Sample response:

.. code-block:: javascript

  {
    "message": "template has been updated",
    "template": {
        "createdAt": "Wed, 29 Aug 2018 23:31:15 UTC",
        "description": "new template description",
        "name": "template.name"
    }
  }


Delete template
+++++++++++++++

.. code-block:: url

    DELETE /<domain>/templates/<name>

Delete the template specified in the url. **NOTE:** This method deletes all versions of the specified template.

Example:

.. include:: samples/templates/template-delete.rst

Sample response:

.. code-block:: javascript

  {
    "template": {
        "name": "template.name"
    },
    "message": "template has been deleted"
  }

View all templates in a domain
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

.. code-block:: url
    
    GET /<domain>/templates

Returns a list of stored templates for the domain

.. container:: ptable

 =============== ================================================================================
 Parameter       Description
 =============== ================================================================================
 page            Name of a page to retrieve. ``first``, ``last``, ``next``, ``prev`` 
 limit           Number of records to retrieve. Default value is 10 
 p               Pivot is used to retrieve records in chronological order
 =============== ================================================================================


Example:

.. include:: samples/templates/template-get-all.rst

Sample response:

.. code-block:: javascript

  {
    "items": [
        {
            "createdAt": "Wed, 29 Aug 2018 23:31:15 UTC",
            "description": "Template description",
            "name": "template.0",
        },
        {
            "createdAt": "Wed, 29 Aug 2018 23:31:18 UTC",
            "description": "Template description",
            "name": "template.1"
        },
        {
            "createdAt": "Wed, 29 Aug 2018 23:31:21 UTC",
            "description": "Template description",
            "name": "template.2"
        }
    ],
    "paging": {
        "first": "https://api.mailgun.net/v3/YOUR_DOMAIN_NAME/templates?limit=10",
        "last": "https://api.mailgun.net/v3/YOUR_DOMAIN_NAME/templates?page=last&limit=10",
        "next": "https://api.mailgun.net/v3/YOUR_DOMAIN_NAME/templates?page=next&p=template.2&limit=10",
        "prev": "https://api.mailgun.net/v3/YOUR_DOMAIN_NAME/templates?page=prev&p=template.0&limit=10"
    }
  }

Delete all templates in a domain
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

.. code-block:: url

   DELETE /<domain>/templates

Delete all stored templates for the domain.

Example:

.. include:: samples/templates/template-delete-all.rst

Sample response:

.. code-block:: javascript

  {
    "message": "templates have been deleted"
  }

Create new version
++++++++++++++++++

.. code-block:: url

    POST /<domain>/templates/<template>/versions

Create a new version of a template. If the template doesn't contain any other versions, the first version becomes active.

.. container:: ptable

 =============== ================================================================================
 Parameter       Description
 =============== ================================================================================
 template        Content of the template
 tag             Tag of the version is being created
 engine          (Optional) Template engine. The only engine currently supported is ``handlebars``.
 comment         (Optional) Comments relating to the stored version
 active          (Optional) If this flag is set to ``yes``, this version becomes active
 headers          (Optional) Key Value json dictionary of headers to be stored with the template. The headers currently supported are `From`, `Subject`, and `Reply-To`.
 =============== ================================================================================

Example:

.. include:: samples/templates/version-create.rst

Sample response:

.. code-block:: javascript

  {
    "template": {
        "createdAt": "Wed, 29 Aug 2018 23:31:11 UTC",
        "description": "template description",
        "name": "template.name",
        "version": {
            "createdAt": "Wed, 29 Aug 2018 23:31:21 UTC",
            "engine": "handlebars",
            "tag": "v1.0.0",
            "comment": "version comment"
        }
    },
    "message": "new version of the template has been stored"
  }

Get version
+++++++++++

.. code-block:: url

    GET /<domain>/templates/<name>/versions/<tag>

Retrieve the information and content of the specified version of a template.

Example:

.. include:: samples/templates/version-get.rst

Sample response:

.. code-block:: javascript

  {
    "template": {
        "createdAt": "Wed, 29 Aug 2018 23:31:11 UTC",
        "description": "template description",
        "name": "template.name",
        "version": {
            "createdAt": "Wed, 29 Aug 2018 23:31:21 UTC",
            "engine": "handlebars",
            "tag": "v1.1.0",
            "comment": "version comment",
            "template": "{{fname}} {{lname}}",
            "headers": {
                "subject": "{{subject}}"
            }
        }
    }
  }

Update version
++++++++++++++

.. code-block:: url

    PUT /<domain>/templates/<name>/versions/<tag>

Update information or content of the specific version of the template.

.. container:: ptable

 =============== ================================================================================
 Parameter       Description
 =============== ================================================================================
 template        (Optional) The new content of the version
 comment         (Optional) New comment for the provided version
 active          (Optional) If this flag is set to ``yes`` this version becomes active
headers          (Optional) Key Value json dictionary of headers to be stored with the template. The headers currently supported are `From`, `Subject`, and `Reply-To`.
 =============== ================================================================================

Example:

.. include:: samples/templates/version-update.rst

Sample response:

.. code-block:: javascript

 {
   "template": {
       "name": "template.name",
       "version": {
         "tag": "v1.2.0"
       }
    "message": "version has been updated"
 }

Delete version
++++++++++++++
.. code-block:: url

    DELETE /<domain>/templates/<template>/versions/<version>

Delete a specific version of the template.

Example:

.. include:: samples/templates/version-delete.rst

Sample response:

.. code-block:: javascript

 {
   "template": {
       "name": "template.name",
       "version": {
         "tag": "v1.3.0"
       }
    "message": "version has been deleted"
 }


View all versions in template
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

.. code-block:: url
    
    GET /<domain>/templates/<template>/versions

Returns a list of stored versions of the template

.. container:: ptable

 =============== ================================================================================
 Parameter       Description
 =============== ================================================================================
 page            Name of a page to retrieve. ``first``, ``last``, ``next``, ``prev`` 
 limit           Number of records to retrieve. Default value is 10 
 p               Pivot is used to retrieve records in chronological order
 =============== ================================================================================

Example:

.. include:: samples/templates/version-get-all.rst

Sample response:

.. code-block:: javascript

  {
    "template": {
        "createdAt": "Wed, 29 Aug 2018 23:31:11 UTC",
        "description": "Template description",
        "name": "template.name",
        "versions": [
            {
                "createdAt": "Wed, 29 Aug 2018 23:31:21 UTC",
                "engine": "handlebars",
                "tag": "v0",
                "comment": "Version comment"
            },
            {
                "createdAt": "Wed, 29 Aug 2018 23:31:31 UTC",
                "engine": "handlebars",
                "tag": "v1",
                "comment": "Version comment"
            },
            {
                "createdAt": "Wed, 29 Aug 2018 23:31:41 UTC",
                "engine": "handlebars",
                "tag": "v2",
                "comment": "Version comment"
            }
        ]
    },
    "paging": {
        "first": "https://api.mailgun.net/v3/YOUR_DOMAIN_NAME/templates/z4ujt7CiEeik0RJbspqxaQ/versions?limit=10",
        "last": "https://api.mailgun.net/v3/YOUR_DOMAIN_NAME/templates/z4ujt7CiEeik0RJbspqxaQ/versions?page=last&limit=10",
        "next": "https://api.mailgun.net/v3/YOUR_DOMAIN_NAME/templates/z4ujt7CiEeik0RJbspqxaQ/versions?page=next&p=v2&limit=10",
        "prev": "https://api.mailgun.net/v3/YOUR_DOMAIN_NAME/templates/z4ujt7CiEeik0RJbspqxaQ/versions?page=prev&p=v0&limit=10"
    }
  }

Commit message:

add documentation around tempalte header behavior

source/api-templates.rst, after:

.. _api-templates:

Templates
=========

This API allows you to store predefined templates and use them to send messages using the :ref:`Sending API <api-sending-messages>`.

The Templates API endpoint is available at:

.. code-block:: url

      v3/<domain>/templates

The API has the following limitations:

* 100 templates per domain
* 10 versions per template
* 100Kb max template size


Templates API
------------

Store new template
++++++++++++++++++

.. code-block:: url

    POST /<domain>/templates

This API stores a new template, including its name, description and (optionally) the template content.
If the template content is provided, a new version is automatically created and becomes the active version.

.. container:: ptable

 =============== ==================================================================
 Parameter             Description
 =============== ==================================================================
 name            Name of the template being stored. The name can contain alpha characters, digits and next symbols: .-_~
 description     Description of the template being stored
 template        (Optional) Content of the template
 tag             (Optional) Initial tag of the created version. If the `template` parameter is provided and the `tag` is missing, the default value `initial` is used. The tag can contain alpha-numeric characters and next symbols, such as .-_~
 engine          (Optional) The template engine used to render the template. This is valid only if the `template` parameter is provided. Currently, the Templates API supports only the **handlebars** engine.
 comment         (Optional) Version comment. This is valid only if a new version is being created. (`template` parameter is provided.)
 headers         (Optional) Key Value json dictionary of headers to be stored with the template. The headers currently supported are `From`, `Subject`, and `Reply-To`.
 =============== ==================================================================

.. warning:: Headers set at the message level will override headers set on the template. e.g. Setting the From header at the time of
    sending will override the From header saved on the template. Additionally, headers generated by templates are not reflected on
    the accepted event as they are not prepended to the message until the message is prepped for delivery. if a From header is not
    provided either in the message or template, we will default to `postmaster@your-sending-domain.tld`.

Example of storing only the template metadata:

.. include:: samples/templates/template-create.rst

Sample response:

.. code-block:: javascript

  {
    "template": {
        "createdAt": "Wed, 29 Aug 2018 23:31:13 UTC",
        "description": "template description",
        "name": "template.name",
    },
    "message": "template has been stored"
  }

Example of storing a template with a version:

.. include:: samples/templates/template-create-version.rst

Sample response:

.. code-block:: javascript

  {
    "template": {
        "createdAt": "Wed, 29 Aug 2018 23:31:13 UTC",
        "description": "template description",
        "name": "template.name",
        "version": {
            "createdAt": "Wed, 29 Aug 2018 23:31:14 UTC",
            "engine": "handlebars",
            "tag": "initial",
            "comment": "version comment",
            "headers": {
                "From": "{{from}}",
                "Reply-To": "{{reply_to}}",
                "subject": "{{subject}}"
            }
        }
    },
    "message": "template has been stored"
  }


Get template 
+++++++++++++

.. code-block:: url

    GET /<domain>/templates/<name>

Returns metadata information about the stored template specified in the url. If the `active` flag is provided, the content of the active version of the template is returned. 

.. container:: ptable

 =============== ===================================================================
 Parameter       Description
 =============== ===================================================================
 active          (Optional) If this flag is set to **yes** the active version of the template is included in the response. 
 =============== ===================================================================

Example:

.. include:: samples/templates/template-get.rst

Sample response:

.. code-block:: javascript

  {
    "template": {
        "createdAt": "Wed, 29 Aug 2018 23:31:13 UTC",
        "description": "template description",
        "name": "template.name"
    }
  }

Example of retrieving the active version of a template:

.. include:: samples/templates/template-get-active.rst

Sample response:

.. code-block:: javascript

  {
    "template": {
        "createdAt": "Wed, 29 Aug 2018 23:31:13 UTC",
        "description": "template description",
        "name": "template.name",
        "version": {
            "createdAt": "Wed, 29 Aug 2018 23:31:15 UTC",
            "engine": "handlebars",
            "tag": "v0",
            "template": "{{fname}} {{lname}}",
            "comment": "version comment"
        }
    }
  }

Update template
+++++++++++++++

.. code-block:: url

    PUT /<domain>/templates/<name>

Update the metadata information of the template specified in url.

.. container:: ptable

 =============== ==============================
 Parameter       Description
 =============== ==============================
 description     Updated description of the template
 =============== ==============================

Example:

.. include:: samples/templates/template-update.rst

Sample response:

.. code-block:: javascript

  {
    "message": "template has been updated",
    "template": {
        "createdAt": "Wed, 29 Aug 2018 23:31:15 UTC",
        "description": "new template description",
        "name": "template.name"
    }
  }


Delete template
+++++++++++++++

.. code-block:: url

    DELETE /<domain>/templates/<name>

Delete the template specified in the url. **NOTE:** This method deletes all versions of the specified template.

Example:

.. include:: samples/templates/template-delete.rst

Sample response:

.. code-block:: javascript

  {
    "template": {
        "name": "template.name"
    },
    "message": "template has been deleted"
  }

View all templates in a domain
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

.. code-block:: url
    
    GET /<domain>/templates

Returns a list of stored templates for the domain

.. container:: ptable

 =============== ================================================================================
 Parameter       Description
 =============== ================================================================================
 page            Name of a page to retrieve. ``first``, ``last``, ``next``, ``prev`` 
 limit           Number of records to retrieve. Default value is 10 
 p               Pivot is used to retrieve records in chronological order
 =============== ================================================================================


Example:

.. include:: samples/templates/template-get-all.rst

Sample response:

.. code-block:: javascript

  {
    "items": [
        {
            "createdAt": "Wed, 29 Aug 2018 23:31:15 UTC",
            "description": "Template description",
            "name": "template.0",
        },
        {
            "createdAt": "Wed, 29 Aug 2018 23:31:18 UTC",
            "description": "Template description",
            "name": "template.1"
        },
        {
            "createdAt": "Wed, 29 Aug 2018 23:31:21 UTC",
            "description": "Template description",
            "name": "template.2"
        }
    ],
    "paging": {
        "first": "https://api.mailgun.net/v3/YOUR_DOMAIN_NAME/templates?limit=10",
        "last": "https://api.mailgun.net/v3/YOUR_DOMAIN_NAME/templates?page=last&limit=10",
        "next": "https://api.mailgun.net/v3/YOUR_DOMAIN_NAME/templates?page=next&p=template.2&limit=10",
        "prev": "https://api.mailgun.net/v3/YOUR_DOMAIN_NAME/templates?page=prev&p=template.0&limit=10"
    }
  }

Delete all templates in a domain
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

.. code-block:: url

   DELETE /<domain>/templates

Delete all stored templates for the domain.

Example:

.. include:: samples/templates/template-delete-all.rst

Sample response:

.. code-block:: javascript

  {
    "message": "templates have been deleted"
  }

Create new version
++++++++++++++++++

.. code-block:: url

    POST /<domain>/templates/<template>/versions

Create a new version of a template. If the template doesn't contain any other versions, the first version becomes active.

.. container:: ptable

 =============== ================================================================================
 Parameter       Description
 =============== ================================================================================
 template        Content of the template
 tag             Tag of the version is being created
 engine          (Optional) Template engine. The only engine currently supported is ``handlebars``.
 comment         (Optional) Comments relating to the stored version
 active          (Optional) If this flag is set to ``yes``, this version becomes active
 headers          (Optional) Key Value json dictionary of headers to be stored with the template. The headers currently supported are `From`, `Subject`, and `Reply-To`.
 =============== ================================================================================

Example:

.. include:: samples/templates/version-create.rst

Sample response:

.. code-block:: javascript

  {
    "template": {
        "createdAt": "Wed, 29 Aug 2018 23:31:11 UTC",
        "description": "template description",
        "name": "template.name",
        "version": {
            "createdAt": "Wed, 29 Aug 2018 23:31:21 UTC",
            "engine": "handlebars",
            "tag": "v1.0.0",
            "comment": "version comment"
        }
    },
    "message": "new version of the template has been stored"
  }

Get version
+++++++++++

.. code-block:: url

    GET /<domain>/templates/<name>/versions/<tag>

Retrieve the information and content of the specified version of a template.

Example:

.. include:: samples/templates/version-get.rst

Sample response:

.. code-block:: javascript

  {
    "template": {
        "createdAt": "Wed, 29 Aug 2018 23:31:11 UTC",
        "description": "template description",
        "name": "template.name",
        "version": {
            "createdAt": "Wed, 29 Aug 2018 23:31:21 UTC",
            "engine": "handlebars",
            "tag": "v1.1.0",
            "comment": "version comment",
            "template": "{{fname}} {{lname}}",
            "headers": {
                "subject": "{{subject}}"
            }
        }
    }
  }

Update version
++++++++++++++

.. code-block:: url

    PUT /<domain>/templates/<name>/versions/<tag>

Update information or content of the specific version of the template.

.. container:: ptable

 =============== ================================================================================
 Parameter       Description
 =============== ================================================================================
 template        (Optional) The new content of the version
 comment         (Optional) New comment for the provided version
 active          (Optional) If this flag is set to ``yes`` this version becomes active
headers          (Optional) Key Value json dictionary of headers to be stored with the template. The headers currently supported are `From`, `Subject`, and `Reply-To`.
 =============== ================================================================================

Example:

.. include:: samples/templates/version-update.rst

Sample response:

.. code-block:: javascript

 {
   "template": {
       "name": "template.name",
       "version": {
         "tag": "v1.2.0"
       }
    "message": "version has been updated"
 }

Delete version
++++++++++++++
.. code-block:: url

    DELETE /<domain>/templates/<template>/versions/<version>

Delete a specific version of the template.

Example:

.. include:: samples/templates/version-delete.rst

Sample response:

.. code-block:: javascript

 {
   "template": {
       "name": "template.name",
       "version": {
         "tag": "v1.3.0"
       }
    "message": "version has been deleted"
 }


View all versions in template
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

.. code-block:: url
    
    GET /<domain>/templates/<template>/versions

Returns a list of stored versions of the template

.. container:: ptable

 =============== ================================================================================
 Parameter       Description
 =============== ================================================================================
 page            Name of a page to retrieve. ``first``, ``last``, ``next``, ``prev`` 
 limit           Number of records to retrieve. Default value is 10 
 p               Pivot is used to retrieve records in chronological order
 =============== ================================================================================

Example:

.. include:: samples/templates/version-get-all.rst

Sample response:

.. code-block:: javascript

  {
    "template": {
        "createdAt": "Wed, 29 Aug 2018 23:31:11 UTC",
        "description": "Template description",
        "name": "template.name",
        "versions": [
            {
                "createdAt": "Wed, 29 Aug 2018 23:31:21 UTC",
                "engine": "handlebars",
                "tag": "v0",
                "comment": "Version comment"
            },
            {
                "createdAt": "Wed, 29 Aug 2018 23:31:31 UTC",
                "engine": "handlebars",
                "tag": "v1",
                "comment": "Version comment"
            },
            {
                "createdAt": "Wed, 29 Aug 2018 23:31:41 UTC",
                "engine": "handlebars",
                "tag": "v2",
                "comment": "Version comment"
            }
        ]
    },
    "paging": {
        "first": "https://api.mailgun.net/v3/YOUR_DOMAIN_NAME/templates/z4ujt7CiEeik0RJbspqxaQ/versions?limit=10",
        "last": "https://api.mailgun.net/v3/YOUR_DOMAIN_NAME/templates/z4ujt7CiEeik0RJbspqxaQ/versions?page=last&limit=10",
        "next": "https://api.mailgun.net/v3/YOUR_DOMAIN_NAME/templates/z4ujt7CiEeik0RJbspqxaQ/versions?page=next&p=v2&limit=10",
        "prev": "https://api.mailgun.net/v3/YOUR_DOMAIN_NAME/templates/z4ujt7CiEeik0RJbspqxaQ/versions?page=prev&p=v0&limit=10"
    }
  }
