source/libraries.rst, before:

.. _libraries:

Libraries
---------

The Mailgun API is built on HTTP. Our API is RESTful_ and it:

* Uses predictable, resource-oriented URLs.
* Uses built-in HTTP capabilities for passing parameters and authentication.
* Responds with standard HTTP response codes to indicate errors.
* Returns JSON_.

Mailgun has published libraries for various languages. You may use our 
libraries, or your favorite/suggested HTTP/REST library available for your programming 
language, to make HTTP calls to Mailgun. 

Most code samples in our docs can be viewed in several programming langauges
by using the language bar at the top. Below are the language-specific notes
we feel are useful.

Python
======

**Standard HTTP Library:**  

Python users love Requests_ HTTP library. It is simple, elegant and yet very
powerful. To install it you would simply run:

::

 pip install requests

You may also need a MultiDict class to represent HTTP requests with multiple
values per key. We recommend WebOb's MultiDict_ but `Werkzeug/Flask <werkzeug.pocoo.org/docs/datastructures>`_ also offer MultiDict class.

.. note:: Our code samples use Requests version 0.7.5. Older versions of Requests don't take multi dictionaries. For post data and query params you could use lists to pass multi-valued keys. Unfortunately it won't work for files.

Ruby
====

**Standard HTTP Library:**  

Ruby folks recommend rest-client_ and not without a reason: it is one of the most
beautiful REST HTTP libraries we have seen. The library is available as gem,
so to install it simply run:

::

 gem install rest-client

In case you want to send data with keys that have multiple values you will most
likely need some kind of multimap. And we recommend gem called multimap_.
What a coincidence! To install it just type:

::

 gem install multimap

Java
====

**Standard HTTP Library:**  

Check out jersey_ REST client if Java is your weapon of choice.
It took us 3 jars to get all we needed:

* jersey-client.jar
* jersey-core.jar
* jersey-multipart.jar

C#
===

**Standard HTTP Library:**  

For C# developers there is RestSharp_. And that's it, nothing else is required.
Standard .NET makes it easy to make HTTP requests.

However, if you are using mono_ you will most likely need to allow it to do
HTTP requests to external sites first. The easiest way to do that is probably
by installing Mozilla certificates, like so:

::

 mozroots --import --sync

PHP  
===
  
**Mailgun Library:**  

Our PHP library is robust and provides an excellent interface to easily interact
with our API. 

Github Repository: `mailgun-php <https://github.com/mailgun/mailgun-php>`_     

Minimum PHP Version: 5.3.2

To install the library, you will need to be using Composer in your project. 
If you aren't using Composer yet, it's really simple! Here's how to 
install composer and the Mailgun library.

::

 # Install Composer
 curl -sS https://getcomposer.org/installer | php

 # Add Mailgun as a dependency (x.x is the SDK version, see Github README below)
 php composer.phar require mailgun/mailgun-php:~x.x


Next, just include Composer's autoloader in your application to automatically 
load the Mailgun library in your project.
::
 require 'vendor/autoload.php';
 use Mailgun\Mailgun;

For additional information, see the Github Repository `README <https://github.com/mailgun/mailgun-php>`_ file. 

**Standard HTTP Library:**  

PHP users can use `cURL <http://php.net/manual/ru/book.curl.php>`_ library.

Bellow are all the steps needed to install this library having a fresh Ubuntu
installation.

Run:

::

 sudo aptitude install libmagic-dev
 sudo aptitude install php5-dev

Then to enable curl support:

::

 sudo aptitude install libcurl3

Then if you plan to run scripts from CLI:

::

 sudo aptitude install php5-cli

To install cURL for php which we used for the ability to send put data:

::

 sudo aptitude install php5-curl

That should be all. Quite a list, isn't it? But firstly, we had only a fresh
Ubuntu installation when we started and secondly, once the library is
installed, making HTTP requests becomes no more difficult than
in any other language.

cURL
====
`curl <http://linux.die.net/man/1/curl>`_ is a popular command line tool to send HTTP requests.
It is very simple and yet quite powerfull. With it you could send data using any
HTTP method. You could send post data and query params and files in a very
consistent and elegant way. An exellent choice to study the API.


.. _RESTful: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Representational_State_Transfer
.. _JSON: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Json objects
.. _Requests: http://docs.python-requests.org/en/latest/index.html
.. _rest-client: https://github.com/archiloque/rest-client
.. _jersey: http://jersey.java.net
.. _RestSharp: http://restsharp.org
.. _MultiDict: http://docs.webob.org/en/latest/index.html
.. _multimap: https://github.com/josh/multimap
.. _mono: http://www.mono-project.com/Main_Page

Commit message:

Add node.js section, change sending graphic, edit quickstart

source/libraries.rst, after:

.. _libraries:

Libraries
---------

The Mailgun API is built on HTTP. Our API is RESTful_ and it:

* Uses predictable, resource-oriented URLs.
* Uses built-in HTTP capabilities for passing parameters and authentication.
* Responds with standard HTTP response codes to indicate errors.
* Returns JSON_.

Mailgun has published libraries for various languages. You may use our 
libraries, or your favorite/suggested HTTP/REST library available for your programming 
language, to make HTTP calls to Mailgun. 

Most code samples in our docs can be viewed in several programming langauges
by using the language bar at the top. Below are the language-specific notes
we feel are useful.

Python
======

**Standard HTTP Library:**  

Python users love Requests_ HTTP library. It is simple, elegant and yet very
powerful. To install it you would simply run:

::

 pip install requests

You may also need a MultiDict class to represent HTTP requests with multiple
values per key. We recommend WebOb's MultiDict_ but `Werkzeug/Flask <werkzeug.pocoo.org/docs/datastructures>`_ also offer MultiDict class.

.. note:: Our code samples use Requests version 0.7.5. Older versions of Requests don't take multi dictionaries. For post data and query params you could use lists to pass multi-valued keys. Unfortunately it won't work for files.

Ruby
====

**Standard HTTP Library:**  

Ruby folks recommend rest-client_ and not without a reason: it is one of the most
beautiful REST HTTP libraries we have seen. The library is available as gem,
so to install it simply run:

::

 gem install rest-client

In case you want to send data with keys that have multiple values you will most
likely need some kind of multimap. And we recommend gem called multimap_.
What a coincidence! To install it just type:

::

 gem install multimap

Java
====

**Standard HTTP Library:**  

Check out jersey_ REST client if Java is your weapon of choice.
It took us 3 jars to get all we needed:

* jersey-client.jar
* jersey-core.jar
* jersey-multipart.jar

C#
===

**Standard HTTP Library:**  

For C# developers there is RestSharp_. And that's it, nothing else is required.
Standard .NET makes it easy to make HTTP requests.

However, if you are using mono_ you will most likely need to allow it to do
HTTP requests to external sites first. The easiest way to do that is probably
by installing Mozilla certificates, like so:

::

 mozroots --import --sync

PHP  
===
  
**Mailgun Library:**  

Our PHP library is robust and provides an excellent interface to easily interact
with our API. 

Github Repository: `mailgun-php <https://github.com/mailgun/mailgun-php>`_     

Minimum PHP Version: 5.3.2

To install the library, you will need to be using Composer in your project. 
If you aren't using Composer yet, it's really simple! Here's how to 
install composer and the Mailgun library.

::

 # Install Composer
 curl -sS https://getcomposer.org/installer | php

 # Add Mailgun as a dependency (x.x is the SDK version, see Github README below)
 php composer.phar require mailgun/mailgun-php:~x.x


Next, just include Composer's autoloader in your application to automatically 
load the Mailgun library in your project.
::
 require 'vendor/autoload.php';
 use Mailgun\Mailgun;

For additional information, see the Github Repository `README <https://github.com/mailgun/mailgun-php>`_ file. 

**Standard HTTP Library:**  

PHP users can use `cURL <http://php.net/manual/ru/book.curl.php>`_ library.

Bellow are all the steps needed to install this library having a fresh Ubuntu
installation.

Run:

::

 sudo aptitude install libmagic-dev
 sudo aptitude install php5-dev

Then to enable curl support:

::

 sudo aptitude install libcurl3

Then if you plan to run scripts from CLI:

::

 sudo aptitude install php5-cli

To install cURL for php which we used for the ability to send put data:

::

 sudo aptitude install php5-curl

That should be all. Quite a list, isn't it? But firstly, we had only a fresh
Ubuntu installation when we started and secondly, once the library is
installed, making HTTP requests becomes no more difficult than
in any other language.


Node.js
=======

Check out the available `node modules <https://www.npmjs.org/search?q=mailgun>`_ from the community.

cURL
====
`curl <http://linux.die.net/man/1/curl>`_ is a popular command line tool to send HTTP requests.
It is very simple and yet quite powerfull. With it you could send data using any
HTTP method. You could send post data and query params and files in a very
consistent and elegant way. An exellent choice to study the API.


.. _RESTful: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Representational_State_Transfer
.. _JSON: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Json objects
.. _Requests: http://docs.python-requests.org/en/latest/index.html
.. _rest-client: https://github.com/archiloque/rest-client
.. _jersey: http://jersey.java.net
.. _RestSharp: http://restsharp.org
.. _MultiDict: http://docs.webob.org/en/latest/index.html
.. _multimap: https://github.com/josh/multimap
.. _mono: http://www.mono-project.com/Main_Page
